hello I
the stress and i am your host for the
session i work in the quicktime group
and this session is designing a distance
learning designing distance learning
solutions with QuickTime now that we've
gotten the legal junk out of the way I
will be short and introduce Steve
Bannerman who is the CEO of cash stream
and his company has designed what we
think is a pretty interesting distance
learning solution and he's going to talk
about that he's got some other speakers
to help them out we'll have questions
and answers at the end so if you can
hold your questions to that point and
when you do have questions line up at
the microphones I think you guys know
the drill by now to line up at the
microphones and we'll take those
questions at the end okay thanks
so first of all I have to point out that
when we turned our slides into Apple it
actually said designing a distance
learning solution with QuickTime and
they changed it is so we can't actually
we know our grammar and we can't
actually write home but for some reason
it didn't show up that way so we have a
few speakers for you in this hour and a
half session today because I really
didn't think that you wanted a marketing
guy to get up here and talk a lot about
marketing so we're not going to do that
but I do want to sort of start off the
presentation by giving you a little bit
of context to sort of give you a sense
for why we are what we are and how we
got to where we are right now because
you know you don't just sort of wake up
one day and decide you're going to build
a distance learning solution you know
and what the market requirements are
going to be and how you're going to
implement that but we're going to spend
most of our time with Chris kowalick who
is our CTO and he's going to talk about
the product and the challenges and you
know the advantages and all those kinds
of things have using Quicktime and then
we're going to have a lot of fun because
we've invited one of our customers a
very distinguished customer dr. Steven
early from Cornell University's medical
school to give you a sense of how he
actually implemented our product in his
distance learning application so um
we're you know we're going to spend a
lot of time in demo land they've got a
couple of demos you know one of them is
actually live so we get our sacrifice to
the demo gods before hand and we'll see
how that goes so you know when you look
at the e-learning market out there
elearning takes place in a few you know
areas not the least of which is you know
the classic extend the classroom
distance learning applications but the
e-learning also takes place in corporate
America and corporate training
applications and also really is extended
now into what we consider to be
corporate communications where people
are actually holding internal meetings
using these kinds of products and stuff
like that and you can see that this
market is actually poised for a
tremendous amount of growth so you know
when we first started this product it
was really born out of a request that I
got when I was working on the QuickTime
team from a friend of mine at the Mayo
Clinic who said you know I've been
trying to to put presentations on the
internet using this real producer thing
and it just doesn't work it's just not
reliable is there anything based on
quicktime that i can use that's more
reliable and cross-platform and
unfortunately at the time I said we'll
know
so what do we do so I decided that we
were going to go and I was going to join
this company we're going to build this
thing and so we built it to the
requirements that the Mayo Clinic gave
us for how they wanted to implement a
solution we decided all right do we
productize this thing or do we just
treat it as a one-off and when you look
at the landscape of this market it
became really obvious to us that we
wanted to productize it because there
were some tremendous opportunities but
the opportunities are not just in sort
of the growth of the market that the way
other people are actually attacking that
growth so when you look at the growth of
the market in the way this kind of a
market is evolved you know people used
to compare the you know the sort of cost
of ownership advantages of these kinds
of products against travel and it's like
okay well it's a lot cheaper to do this
kind of stuff online than it is to get
on a plane well you know that was sort
of the first generation of these kind of
products and now we're looking at the
knee of the curve where there's an
opportunity for second generation and
third generation products to come in and
say well okay you don't really measure
this against travel anymore you measure
this against the total cost of ownership
for first generation products and you
realize you're spending almost as much
on those products as you were on travel
because of the nature of the beast and
i'll talk more about that in just a
second so really we come in in that sort
of second generation where we have an
opportunity to take a market it's
already been validated where some of our
competitors have already gone in and
said okay you know people believe now
that this is a good idea and how do we
take that and make it a cost-effective
idea and really drive on the price down
and in the functionality up so you know
just to sort of prove that this market
has been seeded in this market has been
validated Forbes magazine just recently
like last month named lebbick the
fastest growing technology company in
all of in all of tech and so you know
it's this is a company that throughout
the you know the sort of dot-com bust
has really been growing very very
rapidly and so the whole category is
really starting to grow but we think the
explosive growth is going to come from
these next generation products because
if you look at sort of you know what's
going on right now there really is a
kind of perfect storm or a confluence of
events that are really creating a need
for these kind of things you know the
economy has been bad for a while
now and we all know that when we get
that one but you know the Terrorism
thing is definitely keeping people off
the planes and and you know dr. erty
we'll talk a lot more about that because
that was one of the significant things
that motivated his implementation of the
product and of course we also had things
like SARS you know where we're even if
people did get you know travelmate they
would slide a silicon valley from Taiwan
and China and you know these companies
would make them stay in their hotel room
and have conference calls even though
they were right down the street they
weren't going to let them in the
building these kinds of things all sort
of move around and sort of create this
wonderful perfect storm for us in that
it really drives market adoption for
these kind of products but when you look
at the first generation product there's
some significant flaws in how they were
implemented all of them were primary
primarily asp type products which means
that you have what i call it success
penalty you know the more that you use
this product the more you pay so the
more you know the more uses you find for
the product the more it costs you and
you look around and all of a sudden you
figure out that you spend a hundred
thousand dollars on this kind of
subscription-based service last year so
people basically start to find ways to
not use the product cuz they're afraid
they're going to blow their budget it's
also been a very windows dominated world
there are very very few options for
cross-platform technologies and you know
that's created this kind of inwardly
facing focus for these kinds of products
because no one really wants to talk to
their customers because they don't want
to have to worry about what kind of
computer their customers have even if
you know even though only three percent
of your customers have mass you don't
wanna leave any of your customers behind
so you had a tendency to use these
products internally unfocused and also
there was no rich media you know it was
pretty much the experience has been a
whole group of people huddled around a
telephone conference call with static
PowerPoint slides staring at you to see
which one blinked first and you know in
an attention based economy like this you
know you find that if you don't give
people something interesting to look at
and something to interact with they're
going to start checking their email
they're not going to pay attention to
what you have to say and so this really
left the door open for products like
ours to come in and solve these types of
problems so when you look at cash dream
we are very much a product instead of an
ASP you can buy our software one time
you can install it on your own interest
lecture and you can use it as many times
as you want without any without any
recurring usage fees so your total cost
of ownership can go way down you can buy
the product with one budget cycle which
is very important in markets like
education for instance you know it's
really hard in education to go get money
at all going to get money twice it's
almost impossible and so the opportunity
to buy something in one budget cycle and
implemented is extremely important to
those kinds of customers which again is
one of the reasons why you don't see
products like WebEx in place where in
education and of course when you can
install something on your own
infrastructure behind your own firewall
then your security options go up you
know one of our customers is adobe
systems and they decided once Microsoft
bought place where they weren't going to
copy their presentations up to a
Microsoft server anymore so they turned
cash stream instead cash stream is
extremely cross platform as Chris will
talk a few minutes cast room is actually
a suite of applications and every
application in the suite including the
server runs on both mac and windows with
full feature parity between the two
platforms which not only gives you an
opportunity to not have to worry about
what kind of computer you have but you
can now do outwardly facing
presentations because you can start
including your customers and of course
leveraging quick time we get an
opportunity to deliver a really rich
media experience and Chris will talk a
lot about that and that will actually
demo that for you so people actually
stay connected to these kinds of
broadcasts longer and they actually
remember the content longer so if you're
using this kind of stuff for you know
anything from again extending the
classroom in education to reseller
authorization programs and businesses
you get an opportunity for people to
walk away remembering more of what
they've seen all right so cash stream
enterprise is the name of our product
and I'm finished now with the marketing
stuff I'm sure you're all glad to hear
that and so at this point what I'd like
to do is bring Chris kowalick RCT you up
and have him sort of go in depth into
how our product works in what it does so
thank you very much
[Applause]
hello everybody I hope you're enjoying
the show so fine oh I have msg said my
name is Chris kowalick I am the CTO of
cash stream and I'm going to talk to you
today about the challenges of designing
a distance learning solution and how
cool time can help you meet a lot of
those challenges what we're going to
talk about primarily is the basic goals
for distance learning projects this will
apply to any sort of distance learning
solution that you may be designing or
involved in and how quick time can help
you meet those goals one of the
in-stream things about caching is that
we rely very very heavily on quick time
and I call quick time sort of an
off-the-shelf technology because it's
such a rich sweet there it has such a
rich ability to do many different things
that you can implement it very very
easily in your application and get lots
of functionality with not a ton of work
on your part so in our case we're using
QuickTime for both the audio video
playback within our distance learning
solution the still image playback of
course for the slides and we're also
using QuickTime data handlers which I
think people aren't really using that
often these days but were using the
QuickTime data handlers to actually
download the slide media and we'll talk
some more about that later on
specifically how we're doing that so
there's several design goals that you
need to be conscious of when you're
designing a distance learning solution
the most important thing is you need to
synchronize audio and video with the
slides now this doesn't seem like it's
that big of deal but it actually is
because any sort of live internet
broadcasting there's some sort of
inherent delay nothing you can really do
about it all the systems involve some
sort of buffering to deal with latency
that may come up in that sort of thing
and it really is a big deal when you're
doing a presentation when the slides
appear it's slightly the wrong time you
know if they appear a couple seconds
before the video stream is talking about
that slide it really throws off the
presentation of ruins the cohesiveness
of everything so it's very important
that you can synchronize your audio and
video with the slides in a very very
tight manner that's something you
absolutely have to accomplish with a
distance learning solution one of the
things that we really wanted to
accomplish with the ability to display
rich media slides which include things
like macromedia flash progressive
QuickTime movies quicktime BR those
sorts of things in addition to just your
standard still keynote or PowerPoint
slide sort of thing
you need to be able to do both real-time
and on-demand video it's fantastic to be
able to have a live tool so that people
can meet and watch the presentation but
a lot of times I mean our global economy
in our global world it's not convenient
for people in other countries to view
the presentation in real time so it's
really nice to be able to archive that
presentation that really opens up your
audience so that many more people can
experience it when otherwise wouldn't
have an opportunity to obviously it has
to be easy to use and it's very
important for the system to not be an
inhibitor for the people that are trying
to use it because a lot of times these
people don't care about the technology
they just want to give their
presentations they want to disseminate
this information and they don't want the
tool to get in their way so they're used
to working in kino they're used to
working in PowerPoint and they don't
want the actual broadcast of that stuff
to become something that's terribly a
time soaked for them really because it
takes them away from their core
competency which is designing the media
and designing the presentation has to be
cross-platform of course Mac OS 10 mac
OS 9 and the last few versions of
Windows is very helpful for all the
different markets that you have to be in
for distance learning solutions so on
the multiple markets thing the multiple
what each market has sort of its own
requirements that you need to be
adaptable to so for instance the k-12
market has lower equipment budgets and
access to much lower bandwidth generally
so your system needs to be able to scale
down to handle that that's where you're
supporting things like mac OS 9 and
older versions of windows and things
like that that's where it becomes very
very important also becomes very very
important to be able to have very low
bandwidth slides by using things like
flash which is a vector-based thing so
you don't have these gigantic QuickTime
movies I mean you'd have the flexibility
to be able to still be a compelling
solution with very low bandwidth
availability now in higher education you
do have great bandwidth and you tend to
have newer equipment so there's less
restrictions there it's a really fun
market to work in so your system also
needs to be able to scale up you need to
be able to take advantage of that higher
bandwidth so that you're not giving
these people who have access to you know
huge pipes I'm giving them presentations
that they feel
beginning on a 56k modem corporate
training is an interesting market they
generally have good bandwidth for
corporate training but one of the most
important things that corporate trainers
need is the ability to share their
screen to be able to do real-time
training and that's something that you
need to adhere to or at least come up
with some sort of solution for for the
people in that market and for corporate
communications you have varying
bandwidth and firewall to deal with and
the main reason is is that what you're
doing corporate communications you have
no idea where any of the people are
going to be who are watching the
presentation they could be on the
corporate land they could be at home
they could be in a hotel room somewhere
so all these sorts of things lead to
vastly different firewall configurations
and vastly different bandwidth
availability so you need to be scalable
you need to be scalable within the
context of a single broadcast that's
really important so that you have
multiple ways to view the broadcast for
people who might have multiple or
different amounts of bandwidth available
to them some other requirements people
obviously need some way to communicate
whether that communication is back to
the presenter or amongst themselves and
we'll talk a little bit more about how
we handle it in cash dream later and
polling is a very very important thing
being able to assess your audience get a
sense of where they are or if you're
doing a learning thing you can actually
test them get that information back and
use it in some sort of constructive way
it's very very important to be able to
achieve those goals as well so of these
things I just talked about we have a
couple of boxes here we have the stuff
that QuickTime can help you with box and
the stuff the QuickTime can't really
help you that much with box there's a
lot of stuff and the stuff that
QuickTime can help you with box which is
pretty cool quicktime can help you
display your audio and video quicktime
can help you display your rich media and
i should also have ads in there that you
can use quicktime display you're still
media as well JPEGs gifts bitmaps all
those sorts of things quicktime has a
great system for handling live and
on-demand content quicktime is of course
cross-platform and very very good in
both cases on mac and the pc and
quicktime has this media download
capability through the QuickTime data
handlers that that I mentioned earlier
so the few other things that you do need
to achieve kind of on your own or
QuickTime is a really helpful
synchronization that's something that
quicktime does really well internally in
terms of synchronizing audio and video
but you do need to come up with some
sort of system for synchronizing the
slides to that audio video stream chat
and pulling or both things that you
probably need to implement on your own
I've seen some pretty clever wired
sprite movies that can do this sort of
stuff but generally it seems to be
better handle that kind of that kind of
thing on the application level instead
of at the quicktime level so here's cash
dream here's the cash dream you I as you
can see our our fearless leader steve is
in the video window there so what if we
had the design cash stream without
quicktime what would we be left with a
kind of interesting question well first
of all here's the cash room you I as it
stands today first off we've of course
lose the video window that's the most
important thing that we're using
QuickTime for its handling the live
streaming and Andy on-demand streaming
so that would be gone as you might
expect but we also lose our slide window
because a slide window is also handled
by quicktime this is where we display
our JPEGs or gifts or bitmaps are
progressive QuickTime movies or
QuickTime VR movies all those things are
handled through quicktime in that slide
window and the last thing that you might
have expected is our banner area is also
handled by quick time so we're using
utilizing QuickTime there as well to be
able to support any number of media
types that you might want to put into
the banner area generally people tend to
put animated gifts they're sort of like
a web banner kind of thing but but you
have the flexibility to use flash or or
whatever you want in that banner area
all those things are handled by quick
time fortunately we do have quicktime so
we have a UI that looks a little better
than on the last slide so why do we
choose to use quicktime well as I'm sure
everybody here knows quicktime is a very
high performance video architecture if
you have a machine that's playing back
video and you're playing it back with a
quick time you can be guaranteed that
it's playing back as good as it can on
that machine quicktime has the ability
to do scaling on the fly very very well
which is really important in a distance
learning solution because the types of
media that you end up with that you want
to broadcast to people aren't
necessarily designed for the press
tation you could be pulling a quicktime
movie from here and a flash thing from
here and slides from here and you need
to be able to scale those things in real
time so that you get a cohesive
experience on the player side and
QuickTime does an excellent job of doing
that quicktime supports a wide variety
of media types as we all know just all
kinds of things of course flash and your
JPEG GIF all the things I've been
talking about over and over again it's
well supported and marketed by Apple
which is a fantastic thing for instance
a lot of times Apple will do revisions
to quicktime that don't necessarily
require changes in our app for us to
utilize those changes obviously whenever
a new version quicktime comes out you
have to do some sort of QA to make sure
that everything is working properly but
a lot of times you just get stuff for
free and it's a really really exciting
thing to be able to to base your product
on of course QuickTime is completely
cross-platform works fantastic on the pc
and fantastic on the mac and data
handlers for media download that was a
no-brainer for us to be able to use the
same code to do downloading file
downloading on both the mac and the pc
why wouldn't you want to use quicktime
well basically the biggest concern we
get is that some windows users will need
to do an install and this is not such a
huge thing most Windows users are used
to doing some sort of installation for
any sort of product as opposed to on the
Mac most people are more accustomed to
the dragon cells but so as part of the
pc install you can easily throw up a
dialog and tell people they need to talk
with time and run the quicktime
installer it's not a huge issue but
there are some people who do complain
about that every once in a while and it
is unfortunately the cost of being able
utilizes fantastic architecture
so I'm going to talk one by one about
the various portions of the cash stream
you I first we're going to talk about
the video area so what can you just play
in the video area well you can display
any movie that's accessible via a URL so
this includes all the standard media
types i've been talking about JPEGs
gifts and those sorts of things but it
also includes things like rest movies
which is kind of convenient multi data
rate rest movies which allows you to
have say two different live streams
going on 14 56k modem users and one for
broadband users there's also lots of
really clever things you can do with
with ref movies as well you can do audio
only movies of course you can do audio
movies with picture tracks which is very
convenient so if you want to really
really low bandwidth sort of way up to
do your live presentation you can have
an audio only feed and stick in a
picture track of the presenter so even
maybe users on even 28 modems could be
able to view a presentation utilizing
that and then you pair that with multi
data rate movies and you don't have
everybody sitting at the lowest common
denominator you have everybody having a
customized experience based on the level
of bandwidth that they have access to
and of course it can handle streaming
rtsp or HTTP or progressive which is
interesting a lot of people tend to
forget that the quicktime progressive
download fast start feature is a really
really fantastic alternative to doing a
full-blown rtsp stream so you could
certainly use a progressive QuickTime
movie in the slide area or in the video
area in cash stream and it's a it's a
very useful thing to be able to do if
you don't have access to say a quick
time streaming server when you're doing
your on-demand archived presentations so
some of the common issues for the video
area firewalls are obviously something
that you have to be concerned up
quicktime handles that very elegantly
with an HTTP fallback feature new in
quicktime 6.3 just within the last
couple weeks is the ability to
automatically set up the transport which
is handled by this new sheet in
quicktime 6.3 and some other common
issues in video area our lack of
bandwidth that's obviously something
that does come up a bit and you can deal
with that by doing things like audio
only feeds audio is picture tracks like
I mentioned and using multi data rate
rest movies
to help you customize that experience
for each user so the caching slide area
also based on quicktime allows you to
display any quicktime compatible file
accessible via a URL so this is all
sorts of still images jpg gif paying
picked BMP every obscure format that you
can think of all different kinds of
video RTSP and progressive so most
people tend to do progressive videos in
the video window they'll take some sort
of video that they use in the classroom
or whatever and encode it and display it
as a slide but you could also do another
live RTSP stream in the video window if
you wanted so that allows you to set up
say multiple cameras at an event and
have a camera on something and a camera
on something here and you can switch
between them through the course of your
presentation insert those slides
wherever you want it's a very convenient
cool thing to be able to do you can use
some of the specialty media types of
course quicktime VR wired sprite and
flash all kinds of things you can do
with those technologies and of course
everything scales on the fly in the
slide area so if you have slides that
are 640 by 480 and they will
automatically be scaled down to the
proper size or scaled up if necessary
obviously you know bandwidth is a
concern so we do recommend if your
slides are too large that you actually
do scale them yourself ahead of time
just to save the bits but if you're less
concerned about bandwidth am more
concerned about just getting your stuff
done as quickly as possible then scaling
on the fly is certainly an adequate
solution and lastly we have the cash
stream banner area which is very similar
to the slide area actually it also can
display any QuickTime compatible file
accessible via URL it can do all the
still image types as well video both
RTSP and progressive as well specialty
QuickTime vr wired sprite and flash and
it's often used for animated gifts a lot
of times that we do have people also
doing flash in this area because it's
such a lightweight media type and you
could do so much more than you would be
able to do with with an animated gif so
we're also using the QuickTime data
handlers the cash dream we're using both
HTTP and the ftp data handlers for
downloading slide media which allows you
to place your side media either on an
HTTP server or an ftp server whichever
you'd prefer it's cross-platform and
it's sort of a browser paradigm you pass
off the URL to quicktime quicktime
returns you a file and then you can do
whatever you want
that it's very very convenient here's a
URL to some sample code about the
QuickTime file transfer protocol so
we're going to move over to the demo
machine I think I'm still wired over
here yes I am which is fantastic and
we're going to show you cash game here
i'll just adjust something here see if
this works so this is our vice president
of operations is that correct Jeff
Jameson who's going to be talking to you
for a little bit about some of the rich
media content the cash stream can
display okay Jeff are ready to go I'm
just going to send him a message here
typing in front of people is always kind
of embarrassing sort of saying there you
go so Jeff should be soon as he gets our
message he should start rolling okay
great all right so just let me know real
quickly Chris that you can actually see
and hear me okay and we'll go ahead and
get started
okay great all right well hi everybody
my name is Jeff jameson on the vice
president operations to your cash dream
hope everybody is enjoying the show
today so far which I could be there
myself but because it turns out
Christmas Eve need some help with a live
demonstration here today so here I am so
real briefly and spend about 15 minutes
I want to talk about what exactly cash
dream is and then I'm going to show you
some rich media examples and how we
utilize quicktime inside our distance
learning application so let me jump
right into things here so you know
before I get started I want to apologize
for any redundant information I'm sure
christmas eve of kind of talked a little
bit about this already but Blair with me
and I'll just go through for those folks
you might have missed it so what exactly
is cash dream well cast stream is a
quick time-based enterprise solution for
e-learning we synchronize live audio and
video in this window here with rich
media presentations in this window over
here cashton supports both live and
on-demand broadcast which means what
you're seeing me here live today I
congested easily be recording this and
archiving for later on demand use cash
stream is also scalable from almost in
all internet connections from 56k modem
all the way up through internet land the
most importantly craft stream is
completely cross-platform again because
we leverage quick time were able to
display of various types amount of types
of media to the viewers regardless of
what platform there on whether that be
mac OS i know is 10 or course all the
iterations of windows 98 and t2000
cetera so how do you create your media
for use with presentations inside Cashin
well the good news is that we don't
require any you don't have to learn any
new tools for cash dream you can already
continue to use the same authoring
environment that you're already familiar
with whether that's keynote or
PowerPoint or even photoshop and again
because we're leveraging quicktime we're
able to display some more exact media
types like quicktime vr interactive
movies and mac need your Flash so let's
jump right into some examples here of
what we can do inside the media window
first thing I want to talk about is
flash flash a very popular media tech
these days
and it's popular because it's not just a
static slide it's not just a bunch of
graphics and text it actually has motion
it typically has animation of some kind
of moves around and that just generally
grabs your attention and of course you
know being vector-based and whatnot it
makes for a very low file size so it's
great for low land use for low bandwidth
users let me show you an example is
flash real quickly this is the depiction
of Hurricane Floyd moving up the eastern
seaboard here as you can see this slide
already is much more compelling than the
slide before it not it doesn't just have
text and typical you know grabs we're
not has animation to it you can see the
hurricane it's moving up the eastern
seaboard here but we decided to get one
step further and Chris if you haven't
already take a look in the upper right
hand corner and you can see some buttons
up there there's a stop in a play button
we've added some interactivity for the
users so go ahead and play with those
buttons and you'll go to seek be able to
see that you can manipulate this
animation and move the hurricane up to
code this is a really powerful thing you
know it's it's great to see the
animation and have control over this but
inside an e-learning space like this
this is a really great thing because you
know do the cast room technology here
this actual slide is cached locally on
your machine so you're able to
manipulate this slide and click on the
button is completely independent and
free of any of you our moderator control
and you know that's a really important
thing you can learn at your own pace
it's something that's very easy to do
you know and you're able to play with
this button in any kind of environment
so you know a great example for you to
flash in an eeyore and to like this
would be for example specifically if we
were to utilize this slide perhaps I
would be a senior meteorologist and you
guys are all a bunch of meteorologists
or maybe on the national weather service
of some kind and I want to give a
demonstration on you know the latest
hurricane up did or maybe this already
happened and the hurricane passed
through and I kind of wanted to talk to
you guys about you know what exactly
happened and because you have
independent control over this you can
actually manipulate this side you can
stop you could play it while I'm talking
to you and describing things along the
way you can make notes as necessary and
that type of thing you know another
great use of flash is some type of
tutorial I had seen it really great
interactive
on an electronics company website
similar to that of light good guys in
circuit city and this was the tutorial
that was really designed to help folks
learn how to set up their surround sound
speakers and they were able to simply
log on to this interactive piece and it
showed a depiction of a living room
environment you can click on the front
of the room and you know streams in and
it shows you the front speakers and that
type of thing then you can zoom to the
rear and you know Lord about the rear
speakers and that kind of thing and
that's a really compelling interactive
piece in its own but now take that piece
and bring it inside an e-learning tool
like this one and now suddenly it's a
whole lot more compelling you've got me
sitting here actually talking to you
live so not only could you be actually
manipulating and playing when
interacting with this flash piece but
you also have me here I could be talking
you through it you could actually be
asking me questions live and I could be
addressing those questions as such if
needs be so that's a couple of really
good examples how do you like to flash
inside any learning tool like this one
okay so the next minutes ever want to
talk about is quick time you know
because we're leveraging in quick time
we're able to display nearly all the
media types that cook times displays and
that's over 80 different media types
from simple you know still graphics like
gifs jpegs and tips similar to the one
you're seeing now it's a little more
interactive stuff like the flash piece
you just soft but specifically I want to
discuss some more proprietary technology
to quicktime things really more exotic
media types like you know interactive
movies quicktime vr panoramas and object
movies so let me show you this of an
example of one of those right now so
while this appears to be a simple
photograph of you know a beautiful shot
of a boat on the water here in Bermuda
this is actually a QuickTime VR panorama
so kristef you would go ahead and grab
that with your mouse and move it around
and you can you know take a look at the
environment there now you know I'm sure
all of us have seen quick times VR
panorama is before but this is probably
the first time you're seeing it actually
working inside an e-learning tool and
again because it's actually hear in the
media window you actually have me here
to talk about it and you know a great
example of use like this might be that
i'm actually a travel consultant and
you've come to my website to attend a
travel seminar specific
maybe Bermuda and I want to teach you
about Bermuda and you know I can talk to
you over the phone I could even send you
some brochures but really by immersing
yourself inside this this actual
application you've got me here live
talking to you I can address your
questions I can tell you hey i recommend
the specific hotel because you know you
come out the door the hotel and there's
a dock you walk right out and it's a
beautiful thing well i can actually
share that with you i can have you allow
you immerse yourself inside this whole
scene and so you know the opposite end
of utilizing quicktime vr panorama might
be to use an object movie for example
let's say i'm a sales manager of a
sports equipment company and you know
we've got a new line of shoes coming out
and you know hasn't been released to the
public yet but we really want you guys
the sales us to get out there and start
selling it well you're going to need to
see it you're going to need to look at
it you're going to need to hold it kind
of a thing so with a QuickTime vr object
movie I can actually show you the shoe I
could let you spin it around look at it
for various angles maybe look at the
tread you know you're going to have to
answer questions for the resellers are
going to want it you know no specific
thing and maybe even I can do some
really interesting things like throwing
some wired sprite layers and maybe have
some buttons there that allows you to
show the different types of colors of
the shoe comes in so those are a few
examples of some really neat ways of
utilizing some more exotic quicktime
types inside annie lennox base like a
stream alright alright so the next thing
i want to talk about is video you know
videos is becoming one of the most
popular media types on the web these
days nearly every website you go to you
see some type of link somewhere that it
has some kind of video to display and
with cash dream you're able to display
and show some really high quality video
images in the media window here am i
right you know video is so immersive
it's so exciting and you know
enthralling really grabs people's
attention every time you go see a movie
to theater you just sit in there and
you're really immersed and you find
yourself just getting into this movie
you feel like you're a part of it well
we really wanted to bring that kind of
feeling into an e-learning space with
cash trip so what we've done is we've
again leverage quick times to be able to
display for really high quality videos
here now you know we're on the internet
now
we're streaming and you know in actually
using video for this live feed it's a
really simple thing it's a really great
thing you're seeing me here at about a
hundred kilobits or so and that works
great for a talking head shot like
you're seeing me and now of course if I
move around a lot that kind of thing
might get a lot more pix elated and
choppy but fortunately because we have
this e-learning space because we have we
leverage quick time in the media window
I can show some much more high quality
cd-rom quality videos in here so let me
give you a demonstration of one of those
right now
[Music]
my name is Stephen King and we are at
the townhome studios and women alright
so that was a really good example of
some really high quality video much more
compelling than the video seeing me in
here again constrained by the internet
and the band amount of connection that
the viewer had so you know a great
example using that video if if you've
noticed that this video window here
continue to play simultaneously with the
video streaming with the other video you
just saw in the media window and I could
have done some really interesting things
there I could have turned down the
volume of that video and maybe walk you
through it perhaps I was you know an
audio engineer of some kind and I wanted
to share with you you know when I went
to West London to see the town house
studios and i met this particular audio
engineer or that audio engineering etc
that's everything and that's a really
compelling way because i can show you
some really high quality video there
without having to worry about the
constraints of being on the internet and
streaming to you another great example
of video use might be let's go back to
the travel agent scenario you know I
shows you the great immersive VR but you
know you're still not certain so maybe I
can show you some actual video that I've
taken from the hotel I can walk you
through it step by step you know this is
the lobby this is the the rooms look
like that type of thing and even take us
you some testimonials from particular
folks who might have stayed at that
hotel so you can see that's a really
powerful way to utilize video in an
e-learning space alright alright so the
next thing I want to talk about is
assessment and you know assessment is
probably the most critical function in
any learning environment with cash
stream you're able to integrate real
time live audience polled you can ask
either single question polls or test or
you can actually string together
multiple questions to ask a multi choice
test or surveys type of thing so let me
show you how easy this really is to do
right now I'm just pull up my pull
control under here and you know I can
either take the time here
do this the night before and prepare a
whole set of questions and then load
them in for my presentation today but
actually didn't do that today and i'm
going to put Chris on a spot here
because I really wanted to show an
example of how easy this is to submit a
question so Chris if you would simply
type me in any kind of question that you
can think of on the fly here and I will
enter it in repurpose it for to use to
go back in and question the audience
here so go ahead and type in any
question that you can give me give me
something here Oh what is the name
computer k i'm just typing in my
question here yesterday all right so i'm
going to set up a couple of answers here
and again i'm doing this on fire here
and all right so i put in a few
different questions i'm going to choose
to show the results you and i'll explain
that in just a moment i said we update
that question i highlight that question
and I turn around and I ask it to the
audience now you'll notice that a new
window just popped up above your player
that's a really subtle thing but I'd
like to really kind of point out
something particular with that we chose
to do that intentionally because if this
really was a true testing environment I
might have want to test you on you know
one of the slides is in the media window
right now and I wouldn't want to have to
take that medial way in order to ask a
question to the audience here so Chris
if you would go ahead and click on an
answer choose any answers just so you
know wait okay don't know I'm sleeping
of course I'm sure everybody's sleeping
there right but as you can see as soon
as Chris answered it updated in real
time back showing a hundred percent of
the people here answer don't know I'm
sleeping and of course you guys are the
only folks connected if we did have some
other folks connected you see that what
what happens is that people connect as
people answer the question the results
are update
real time in a percentage it's running
constantly as people you know sister and
submit their answer and it would show as
it shows now a hundred percent don't
know I'm sleeping would show you know
fifty percent here sent there that kind
of thing and so forth so and again just
as well because I asked a single
question if this really was a true
testing environment I could have chosen
to check uncheck the show poll results
and I would have presented a question to
you again it simply would have asked you
the question you would have selected an
answer and then would've said thank you
very much and close the window goodbye
and the next thing would have been a
series of question where I can take a
series of stale xa10 multiple question
multiple choice questions string those
together and you know Gotye how to
present that to you and you'd go through
similar you I where it says question 1
through 10 2 through 10 etc so what do
we do with all the information that you
actually when people submit answers what
we do with all that stuff well the good
news is there's no big server on the
back end you don't need sequel server or
anything else to manage this all the
information is submitted back to the
moderator here at my local machine we
capture things like the name and
location that you entered as well as the
IP address of the machine that you're
connecting from there all this
information is stays into a simple tab
delimited format spreadsheet so you can
easily export either on the fly during
your presentation or when you're done
and bring it into any one of your
favorite spreadsheet applications like
Excel and whatnot alright so that is
polling so Chris if you'll go ahead and
close that window let me go ahead and
let's move on alright so we just
recently announced version 2 cache
stream and I just want to touch on a few
of the highlights features here and go
through that real briefly the first
thing is that we now support up to 500
concurrent users each iteration of the
server will support up to 5 simultaneous
broadcast and now to 500 users
concurrently that means for example I
can be giving a presentation to 250
people on this server as well someone
else connected on the same server could
be giving another place 250 people and
so forth we now offer a choice of window
size of the media window the wouldn't
media that you're seeing here to my
right
it's 480 x 360 and we also have a
smaller size at 320 x 240 which just
helps reduce the ones and zeros for
those folks on lower bandwidth
connections we now support some great
great feature for some folks with
disabilities we have a slide text
captioning feature we recognize that
there's some people out there that may
have hearing disabilities and so we
allow up to a thousand twenty four
characters to be associated with each
slide Chris if you haven't already go
ahead and open up your side text
captioning window using command T and
keyboards there and you can see that
window pops up there's a couple buttons
there to increase or decrease the size
of the font because again we recognize
there some other folks that might have
additional disabilities as well so with
capturing to we also support now
multiple moderators which means that we
can have actually two three or multiple
different moderators at different
locations physically you know I might
have set up a presentation work I've got
20 slides and maybe one through ten or
my slides and I'd like to pass it off at
slide 11 to somewhere else day in Boston
on the East Coast and what I can do
simply highlight that person in my user
list I select him I grant him control
and let him go through the slides and as
a master moderator I can simply take
that control back when you've done and
finally can stream has a really powerful
URL linking feature which means that you
can basically associate any URL with any
slide and it's as simple as setting us
up on the slide properties and the
moderator here I simply type in the URI
want and it makes them so easy so that
when i get to decide but you user can
simply click on this slide and it will
open their default browser and take them
to the Associated URL so Chris again if
you would please just click on the slide
and you can see it will open up his
default browser and take you to which is
of course Safari and take you to the
Associated site that I've set with this
slide now you'll notice that you know as
the browser opens you can still hear me
in the background I still continue to
run flawlessly and seamless which here
with the browser as it searches out for
the website and this is a really great
way to get people to kind of share some
other two other materials that you might
have for your presentation it's kind of
out there on the web without them
actually leaving the learning
environment here
alright so those are the cashew
highlight and that basically wraps up
for me Chris unless there's something
else specifically that you want me to go
back and review let me know otherwise I
will happily sign up so is there
anything you'd like me to go back to
review specifically note we're good
alright well thank you very much
everybody take care and enjoy the show
alright so there's an example of our
distance learning solution obviously
you're designing your own solution
you're going to have many similar goals
and you're going to want to achieve we
have the most familiar with caching of
course which is why it's easy for us to
to talk about it but Jeff did cover a
lot in his presentation there so and
some of the things I was going to cover
too so I'm going to go a little bit
quickly through some of my last
remaining slides here and then we'll get
dr. Steve nearly up here to show you
some cool applications he's doing with
cash dream so can we go back to slides
please thank you so what sorts of things
do you need to be concerned about when
you're designing your distance learning
solution other than the obvious things
with audio and video and whatnot so you
need to be concerned about slide
creation you need to be able to create
slides in a variety of applications so
that people can work in tools that
they're already familiar with supporting
tools like keynote PowerPoint flash
Photoshop Illustrator app works those
things are very important utilizing
QuickTime allows you to basically have
support for any applications that can
produce something that QuickTime can
display so anything that can be played
back in quicktime player you can play
back in with in cash freeman and as part
of your presentation in our case we
happen to have some actual integration
with keynote that we've done using
applescript so you export your keynote
presentation and then you process of an
apple script in quicktime player pro
which then prepares the slides for use
of cash stream this is very convenient
for people who do use keynote allows
them to retain the transitions and all
sorts of cool things that you have as
part of your keynote presentations you
need to be concerned about slide
synchronization as I mentioned before
the video is delayed by the live
broadcast sure in our case we came up
with the technology called sync sure to
make certain that the slides in the
video did remain
I think throughout a broadcast and
that's something that you'll also need
to sort out and here's our cincture
slide delay slider in the broadcast
setup you can sit anywhere from 0 to 30
seconds to compensate for the latency in
your streaming connection there's also
an additional thing she replied delay
competition in the player this is really
convenient for people who happen to be
much further away from your broadcast
point than others so if you said say a
four-second delay which is good for most
people some people say in Australia
might actually be experiencing a six
second delay so they can actually add on
to the delay if they want to keep their
slides in sync chad is very important
because users need a way to communicate
with the presenter or the moderator to
ask them questions and provide them
feedback that sort of thing they
generally need a way to communicate with
each other this is useful up to a
certain number of people it can
certainly get out of hand if you have
too many people but if you have a
moderately sized group allowing the
group to chat amongst themselves is
certainly something that is an option
for you to do it is nice to be able to
turn that off though you know there are
situations where you don't want people
jabbering amongst themselves while
you're giving your presentation so you
can actually turn that off as a
moderator you have the control to do
that so in that case the chat with the
presenter becomes sort of a one-way
thing where you're typing in questions
it's showing up to the presenter and
nobody else is seeing those questions
it's also really convenient for the
presenter if you want to pick and choose
which questions you want to answer
allows you some level of editorial
control check would be globally disabled
/ broadcast or individuals individual
users can close the chat window if it's
distracting to them so if you're not
interested in being part of the
conversation you can just click that
disclosure triangle and close up the
chat window and you don't have to see
any of it and polling is very important
as Jeff spent some time talking about
presenters need a way to pull the
audience to perform tasks just that's
interest and to guide the presentation
which is an interesting thing a lot of
our users tend to create presentations
that are much larger than the
presentation actually end up giving and
they ask the audience in the middle of
the presentation how they want to
proceed they get a sense of where
they're at with the content and they
were get a sense of what they really are
interested in and they go to that
portion of their presentation they allow
they have basically branching points
that they can go to so that's a
convenient use of the polling
architecture
so here's an example of the cast ringing
poll in this case we're talking about
widgets as you do and I'm buying a wacky
widget pro there I guess the polling
system has no back-end database the
results are stalled rectly in the
moderate application this is really key
because it's a little daunting for most
people to set up some sort of back-end
sequel database and all those sorts of
things in our case the data store
directly in the moderator and it can be
exported as tab-delimited text it's very
very simple to the user you don't have
to write a single sequel select
statement and that data can be imported
that into Excel or FileMaker appleworks
or various learning management systems
so the last thing you probably really
need to be most concerned about is your
cross-platform considerations various
marketing support for various platforms
Mac os10 obviously is incredibly
important various versions of Windows
was important but if you're targeting
education you also do need to consider
Mac OS 9 because there's still a lot of
Mac OS 9 machines out there quicktime
supports the vast majority of desktops
in the world so obviously you can't go
wrong there in our case caching ms
developers real basic which allows for
carbon and win32 compilation from a
common code base which is an incredible
time saver when you're trying to ship
for six or seven different platforms at
one time so here's some links to some
documentation about the sorts of things
we talked about obviously the basic
QuickTime documentation can be found
there first time data handlers can also
be found this next URL and there's an
example file that I mentioned earlier
but here's that URL again and excellent
page about Apple script and quicktime
player pro if you're interested in
utilizing the apple script architecture
to do some sort of integration of your
app with with another app and that's it
for me if you want to clip them
introduce dr. D thank
thanks Chris and I want to say also
thanks to Jeff Jeff doesn't do demos
every day and we sort of put him on the
spot to do this one and I think he did a
great job so thanks Jeff so the next
speaker that I'd like to introduce is
someone that I consider to be very lucky
to know he's a very distinguished
presenter dr. Steven dirty is the senior
director of the office of academic
computing at the wild medical school at
Cornell University he's also the chief
security officer he's also an associate
professor he's an MD and a PhD one of
the smartest people I've ever met and
also one of our one of our first
customers and I thought it would be
really cool to invite dr. early to the
stage to have him give you a sense of
how he's doing this in the real world
you know we can do demos and we can talk
about how this stuff works but he had
real problems to solve and and and real
resources to apply to those problems and
I'd love I'd like for him to sort of
give us a sense for how he's doing it so
dr. thanks a lot States fun to be part
of the cast stream advertising team here
well let me tell you a little bit about
where where I come from basically the
wild medical college is located in New
York City the rest of Cornell is in
Ithaca in case you guys know that we
have had a computer-assisted problem
based curriculum which means that the
medical students are actually challenged
with problems as opposed to getting
lectures they're very very few lectures
going forward I don't know what sort of
the makeup of this audience how many you
were sort of higher educated versus
computer geeks any higher at people well
good ok so this curriculum change was a
major shift in medical education and
it's happened in quite a few schools in
the last 10 years Cornell had been
Macintosh basin 1984 we actually started
doing interactive video discs with Mac
pluses and that was through a grant with
apple and it was a lot of fun one of the
things that it's recently happened is
that we've opened a branch of the
medical school in Qatar and I have a few
of my colleagues here from guitar in the
audience it's going to be a combined
undergraduate graduate program so the
first two years are going to be taught
by cornell university faculty in Ithaca
and
the medical school faculty in New York
City as well as faculty and guitar are
going to be teaching the last four years
so the problem is you know where is
guitar I don't know at this point in
time everybody watches the news probably
know that the other major problem is how
to pronounce it and I have some experts
with me in the audience it's pronounced
in many different ways and they're all
correct supposedly but the big problem
is how do we get enough faculty to teach
there so one of the requirements was
that this branch medical school would
have to have the exact same curriculum
in the same standards as the new york
city of school as well as the ithaca
undergraduate courses so while we are
able to get some faculty who are willing
to go to guitar we're not going to get
every faculty member to go to guitar and
also timing-wise are going to be courses
going on at the same time on one campus
on the other campus so we had some
possible solutions we've played around
with videoconferencing and in fact we do
originally internet-based video
conferencing between New York City and
guitar all the time it's great for
real-time conferences that we have
between the tech staff and the
administration however there's an eight
hour time difference and a different
weekend I don't know some everybody
realize it but the weekend is different
in the Middle East it although it's in
Qatar it's changing its going to go from
Thursday Friday to Friday Saturday which
is a major boon for us and we're very
happy about that but it's really not
great for a very rich media and medical
school we are very much into graphics
and media I'm a pathologist and imaging
is really important to us there are live
streaming video solutions but again
there's an eight hour time difference
and again they're not really great for a
rich media that we want to have as part
of our curriculum so the solution was
obviously casting notice we looked
around and and and one of our issues was
we needed to have a synchronous
streaming video with synchronized
multimedia so somebody could actually do
this course remotely all right eight
hours separate from when they actually
gave the lecture you know quicktime is
really great for the talking head we
have synchronized JPEGs which basically
all the media that they talked about
they are exported from powerpoints and
keynote are just basically exported jpg
slides but some of the courses really
had video and a lot of other stuff that
we can talk about like synchronized high
resolution still image
and we're about we're just about to sign
a contract with a company to do virtual
microscopy where we scanned huge
microscope slides and have an image that
exceeds the bounds of quicktime and
there's actually a company that has a
flash interface to that so we'll be able
to just plop it right into cast ring
which is very cool I just found out
about that this weekend so we have a
demonstration that's perfect for this
meeting it's late in the day and this is
actually one of our one of our great
professors in if a guy he teaches one of
the most popular causes it's from psych
101 in Ithaca professor's name of dr.
Moss and he's the author of power sleep
and it's one of the largest courses at
Cornell so this guy is not going to come
to Qatar to teach 24 students so we had
to figure out a way to do this and of
course this is the most challenging
course because this guy uses video clips
16-millimeter film clips everything so
one of the big things we had to do with
converting to digitize the entire
collection so let me just go over to the
demo machine you bring up the demo
machine all right should I wanted to do
that I apologize this is a can demo but
the bandwidth over the internet wasn't
as secure as i would have liked so today
we're going to talk about narcolepsy one
of the most dramatic of all the sleep
disorders 250 thousand Americans have
this rather debilitating disorder for
planners primary symptom deprived
excessive daytime sleepiness is
cataplexy so this is his powerpoint
slides that we basically to appear you
must job that's right we took offline
and you know that the slide changes are
going on as he's giving a lecture he's
not he's when he clicked the
synchronization we can remotely channel
the slide after a funny joke and
laughter is one of the time he's a
really it's a really interesting topic I
mean and the reason I want to show this
because the the extra media that we have
really makes the point of why this is
important attack REM sleep right during
the day times in the condition that i'll
bump it forward a little slow wave sleep
into REM sleep but in this case you're
going directly from wakefulness
interrupt
it's rather frightening now these
attacks are self-limiting after they're
over the patient will get up and resume
life just as it were before you told the
funny joke and he or she got stimulated
I'm going to talk about two case
histories with narcolepsy people who
have these cataplexy health you are
probably not Northwest while it is
probably very tired everyone senior
citizen golfer who in his retirement
loves to play golf but he says to me
I've got one problem Jim and that is
every time I get a great shot I get so
excited I have cataplexy and I collapse
right in the middle of the fairway it's
a darn good thing I'm not a great golfer
I never finished 18 hole types of things
that bring on cataplexy are not only
laughter but surprise anger fear sexual
orgasm so you can begin to think about
some of the problems with these people
encounter no matter that point this way
you get when you go to Cornell the night
before this isn't two or three hours of
them getting up in the morning they feel
as if they had been up for 48 straight
hours it is very very debilitating the
other person I'm going to introduce you
to is a woman who calls herself a
laughing joke meter she works on the
assembly line at the Henry Ford
automobile plant in dearborn michigan
and she has cataplexy is one of her
symptoms and she says every time I come
to work on Monday morning everybody on
my assembly line tells me the funniest
joke that they've heard over the weekend
and the one who makes me collapse the
longest is the one who wins the assembly
line for the week is a very good sense
of humor about this very debilitating
disorder dogs also have narcolepsy in
fact we breed dogs for narcolepsy it's a
genetically linked disorder so that we
can study those things in the dog that
caused narcolepsy so we can perhaps
isolate the brain structures in the
human and hopefully treat them so that
they no longer have that's a plug drug
that's still better my hot here is my
colleague out at Stanford builds a man
holding a dog ginger the dog is not dead
from cadiz having a narcoleptic attacker
khalessi has cataplexy has excessive
daytime sleepiness now you can't
interview the dog to say how tired are
you can certainly this we have a movie
the dog in there and just like the
humans laughter surprise sex fear will
bring on cataplexy attacks in fact here
bill is holding ginger the kakapo and
she was licking his chin and being very
happy now being held and cuddled as a
laboratory animal and she got so excited
that the minute the shutter would snap
down ginger went as you can see bill
holding her in a cat eclectic state I
didn't know thank you very much better
now first of the dogs now these dogs
haven't been fed for about six hours and
the mere sight of food gets them so
excited they have cataplexy and they
can't make it to the food dish then
you'll see the golfer and then the woman
who calls yourself the Laughing joke
meter you notice we gotta we gotta have
the Apple Bobo low going on 20 George I
was tremendously exaggerated tendency to
fall asleep
a golfer excited by a successful golf
stroke falls victim to a sudden attack
of knowledge he loses all muscle control
and instantly enters REM sleep dr.
Martin Shaw protects him from injuring
himself narcolepsy is a lifelong sleep
disorder whose symptoms are excessive
daytime sleepiness and sudden sleep
paralysis although there are medicines
to affect temporary relief there is no
known cure for the disease after a brief
time the golfer waist now the quality of
the compression here not with causing
that in the bad media when the original
film very old who are familiar with the
condition has a narcoleptic attack
brought about by an amusing story was a
good job all we know is a punch line
fighting with all my might to come out
if people keep saying things that I
laugh at well I'll stay under I like to
keep staying under and under until I can
finally clear in my mind and make it a
blank and then I'll come out of it was
magic I'll stop it now since you'll have
to pay for a cornell education so you
know this was a tough course for us this
is a really dynamic course the guys got
media all the time so we did a bunch of
things one as we convince them to move
his entire lecture to keynote which was
to was a real tough because he was a pc
guy but once you saw the rotating cube
that was it he was sold all that
mattered and but by converting all of
his media to digital we did a lot of
things first of all we preserved his
archive which is incredible second is we
basically allowed him to give his entire
lecture live from a single laptop which
is really also amazing but we had the
ability then to capture this we
videotape the lectures and they're
compressed my project manager sitting in
the front John Ruffing you know he
basically did a demo very quickly we
just got a hold of the 20
recently we needed the bigger window we
couldn't go with a smaller version
originally and it I think it's a very
effective ma I see everybody in the
audience was not bored everybody was
watching it so it's a pretty good way to
present this material in a fashion that
we could not do otherwise so as I said I
think was a good solution to a problem
so that's it thank you
[Applause]